
# React - Igniting Our APP

###  What is `NPM`?
NPM is world's largest software registry. It is open source
and used by developers to borrow or share packages.

***
### Bundlers:
A bundler is a development tool that combines many JavaScript code files into a single one that is production-ready loadable in the browser.
It produces the minified and super optimised code for the production build 
for the server.


### What is `Parcel/Webpack`? Why do we need it?
Parcel and Webpack both are bundlers. 


#### Parcel

- The zero configuration build tool 
- Initial build is slow but speed improves for subsequent bundles 
- Customization is minumum 
- Low community and uses 

#### Webpack

- Configuration Required 
- Initial bundle speed is fast 
- Customization is higly available 
- High community and widely used for enterprise application 
***
### what is .parcel-cache?
.parcel-cache is file which is auto genearted by parcel during building of the application.
it is used by the watcher algorithm for subsequent chnages. So that hot module replacement take place and build time minimised for subsequent builds. 

***
### What is `npx` ?
`Node Package Execute` Run packages without downloading using npx.

***
### - What is difference between `dependencies` vs `devDependencies`.
`devDependencies` is the dependencies which are only be used for development environment.

`dependencies` dependencies contains those packages information which are used for development as well as for production.

#### package.json

```javascript
 "devDependencies": {
    "parcel": "^2.8.2",
    "process": "^0.11.10"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "react": "^18.2.0",
    "react-dom": "^18.2.0"
  },
  "browserslist":[
    "last 2 versions"
  ]
}
```
***

### What is Tree Shaking?
Removel of dead, unused and unwanted code is known as Tree Shaking.
it removes the unused code from the packages installed and produces the only useful production code.

***
### What is Hot Module Replacement?
When you make a change, Parcel automatically updates your code in the browser – no page reload necessary!
It uses `file watcher algorithm (C++)` and track the changes and also maintain `.parcel-cache`. and Hot Reaload.

### List of superpowers of Parcel?

- HMR - HOT Module Replacement
- Bundling 
- Minifying & Cleaning the code
- Manage dev and production builds
- Tree Shaking
- Manage Port Number
- Consistent Hashing algorithm
- Proved http and https in dev 
- Image & media file optimization(compression)

***

### What is `.gitignore`? What should we add and not add into it?
`.gitignore` is a file containing the file which is auto generated on server.
As `node_modules``.parcel-cache`,`dist`.

File pushed to git:
- source code files
- package.json
- package-lock.json

***
### What is the difference between `package.json` and `package-lock.json`

`package.json` is the configuration which npm needs to run itself. Contains info about main, scripts, author, isc, etc.

`package-lock.json` an important file which contains exact version of packages being used at production. To avoid uncertainities wherein the version used at devopment differs from that at production, package-lock.json locks the exact version of packages. Keeps a snapshot of which version your project is using.

Never ever put package-lock.json in .gitignore
It Also stores hash of modules to maintain integrity.
`package-lock.json` insure that the version used at production is same as that used at development.

***
### Why should I not modify `package-lock.json`? 

`its works in my local environment but not in production`, if you modify the packages-lock.json it's made difference between local and dev environment.

***
### What is `node_modules` ? Is it a good idea to push that on git?

It's world's heaviest element 😀. And auto generated by `packages.json` and `package-lock.json` So, no need to push it on Git.

***
### What is the `dist` folder?
Dist floder contains the minified and optimised files which generated by Parcel for every subsequent build and is used for HMR.

***
### - What is `browserlists`

A node package which comes along the way with `Parcel` and is responsible to make our app compatible with `older browsers`.

It provides the ability to write customized queries for including support for various browsers and make our app accessible to a larger audience.
```javascript
  "browserslist":[
    "last 2 versions"
  ]
}
```
or 

```javascript
  "browserslist":[
    "last 2 versions of chrome",
  ]
}
Note: It's not mean that it only run in chrome.
But it assures that it defenetely run in the chrome.
```

[Browserlists](https://github.com/browserslist/browserslist#readme)

***
### Project Work: 

- intialize `npm` into your repo
```bash
  npm init 
```
- install `react` and `react-dom`
```bash
  npm install react
  npm install react-dom 
```
- remove CDN links of react
- install `parcel` (as devDependencies)
```bash
  npm install -D parcel 
```
- ignite your app with parcel
```bash
  npx parcel index.html
  
  <execute using npm> parcel <entypoint of APP>
```
- add scripts for “start” and “build” with parcel commands
#### package.json

```javascript
 "scripts": {
    "start": "parcel index.html",
    "build":"parcel build index.html",
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
  },
}
```
Now, for staring & building use following command: 

Before Script | After Script
------------ | -------------
`npx parcel index.htm` | `npm run start` OR `npm start`
`npx parcel build index.html`  | `npm run build` or `npm build`

- add `.gitignore` file
```bash
  npm init 
```
- add `browserlists`
- build a production version of your code using `parcel build
```bash
  npx parcel build index.html 
```

